### TheElements ### 

================================================================================
DESCRIPTION:

TheElements is a sample application that provides access to the data contained in the Periodic Table of the Elements. The Periodic Table of the Elements catalogs all the known atomic elements in the universe.

TheElements provides this data in multiple formats, allowing you to sort the data by name, atomic number, symbol name, and an elements physical state at room temperature.

TheElements is structured as a Model-View-Controller application. There is
distinct separation of the model data, the views used to present that data,
and the controllers which act as a liaison between the model and controller.

The application illustrates the following techniques:

 Configuring and responding to selections in a tab bar
 Displaying information in a tableview using both plain and grouped style table views
 Using navigation controllers to navigate deeper into a data structure
 Subclassing UIView
 Providing a custom UITableViewCell consisting of multiple subviews
 Implementing the UITableViewDelegate protocol
 Implementing the UITableViewDataSource protocol
 Reacting to taps in views
 Open a URL to an external web site using Safari
 Flipping view content from front to back
 Creating a reflection of a view in the interface

TheElements is a fairly large application with many classes. This document
attempts to explain those classes and their roles in the application.

To understand the flow of screens from one to the next when using the
application see the ApplicationFlow.pdf included with the project.

================================================================================
BUILD REQUIREMENTS:

iOS 4.0 SDK

================================================================================
RUNTIME REQUIREMENTS:

iPhone OS 3.2 or later

================================================================================
PACKAGING LIST:

AtomicElement.h
AtomicElement.m

The AtomicElement class encapsulates the data for a single atomic element. It
contains the name, atomic number, symbol, and state information, along with
layout information (horizontal and vertical positions). It returns the image
that represents the state of the object, which displayed in each visual
representation of an element.

PeriodicTable.h
PeriodicTable.m

The PeriodicTable class encapsulates the collection of AtomicElement
instances. It provides access to elements in a variety of formats: sorted
numerically, sorted by name, sorted by symbol, elements for an atomic state,
and elements that begin with a specific character. This data is pre-sorted and
indexed when the raw element information is read from the Elements.plist. The
PeriodicTable class is a singleton, there is one instance that is shared by
the entire application.


ElementsTableViewController.h
ElementsTableViewController.m

ElementsTableViewController is the controller class that is used for each of
the four representations of the elements data that is displayed in UITableView
objects. There are four instances of this class created by the UIApplication
delegate when the application is launched. Each instance retains the an
instance of the appropriate Elements*DataSource object for its data
representation. This data source object also provides the images that the
UITabBarItem representing this view control use for display.

The ElementsTableViewController is responsible for creating and configuring
instances of UITableView when requested. The ElementsTableViewController class
adopts the UITableViewDelegate protocol, agreeing to provide the cells for the
tableview.

It provides instances of the custom table cell class ElementTableViewCell
pre-populated with the appropriate AtomicElement object when asked by the
UITableViewDelegate for the cell to be displayed for a row and section.

As the UITableView delegate an instance of the ElementsTableViewController
class will also receive messages when a user taps on a row in the table view.
Upon receiving this event it asks its data source object for the AtomicElement
object that it represents and then instructs the navigation controller for the
view controller to push an instance of the AtomicElementViewController class
onto the navigation stack.


AtomicElementTableViewCell.h
AtomicElementTableViewCell.h

Each row in a UITableView displays a custom table cell of the class
AtomicElementTableViewCell. This custom class displays a graphic indicating
the symbol, atomic number, and state of the element, as well as a text label
with the generally accepted name of the element.

ElementsDataSourceProtocol.h
ElementsSortedByNameDataSource.h
ElementsSortedByNameDataSource.m
ElementsSortedByNumberDataSource.h
ElementsSortedByNumberDataSource.m
ElementsSortedBySymbolDataSource.h
ElementsSortedBySymbolDataSource.m
ElementsSortedByStateDataSource.h
ElementsSortedByStateDataSource.m

The data source classes provide the data for the ElementsTableViewController,
the UITabBarItem, the UINavigationController and the UITableView that is
displayed within those views. There are four classes:
ElementsSortedByNameDataSource, ElementsSortedByAtomicNumberDataSource,
ElementsSortedBySymbolDataSource, and ElementsSortedByStateDataSource.

These classes all adopt and implement the UITableViewDataSource protocol and
are set as the dataSource for the UITableView displayed for the data sorted in
each manner. As the table view requires data it sends messages to its
dataSource (one of these class instances) and that data is displayed.

These classes also adopt the ElementsDataSource protocol. This protocol is
defined by the application and provides a uniform means for the
ElementsTableViewController to determine the title displayed in the tab bar
and navigation controller, the images displayed in the UITabBarItem for this
data representation, and the style the UITableView uses to display the data
(indexed or grouped depending on the sorted representation of the Periodic
Table data.


AtomicElementViewController.h
AtomicElementViewController.m

When a user taps on a row in a UITableView listing a collection of elements
the table's delegate (ElementsTableViewController) receives a message. Upon
receiving this event the ElementsTableViewController asks its data source
object for the AtomicElement object that it represents and then instructs the
navigation controller for the view controller to push an instance of the
AtomicElementViewController class onto the navigation stack.

The AtomicElementViewController is responsible for displaying the single
element view as a large tile. The initial view displayed is the
AtomicElementView. It is also responsible for ensuring that the flipper button
in the navigation bar shows that there is another view available for the
content by tapping on the tile.


AtomicElementView.h
AtomicElementView.m

The AtomicElementView is displayed in the content of the
AtomicElementViewController. It displays the atomic name, number, symbol, and
state of the element. By tapping on the element the display will 'flip' to
show the AtomicElementFlippedView.


AtomicElementFlippedView.h
AtomicElementFlippedView.m

This view displays the Atomic name, number, and state of the current element,
as well as a link to the appropriate page on Wikipedia.

================================================================================
CHANGES FROM PREVIOUS VERSIONS:

Version 1.11
  - Upgraded project to build with the iOS 4.0 SDK.

Version 1.9
  - Changed the target setting's "Code Signing Identity" to the proper value.

Version 1.8
  - Upgraded for 3.0 SDK due to deprecated APIs; in "cellForRowAtIndexPath" it now uses UITableViewCell's initWithStyle.

Version 1.7
  - Updated for and tested with iPhone OS 2.0. First public release.
  - Added additional date to the Element View
  - Fixed memory leaks in reflection implementation
  
Version 1.6
  - Updated with API changes for beta 6 relesae of iPhone OS SDK.
  - The UITableViewDelegate method tableView: cellForRowAtIndexPath: was
    moved to the UITableViewDataSource protocol. This resulted in a change to
	the ElementsTableViewController class and each of the datasources.

Version 1.5
  - Updated with API changes for beta 5 release of iPhone OS SDK.	

Version 1.4
  - Updated with API changes for beta 4 release of iPhone OS SDK.
  - Added code signing.
  - Subviews of cells should no longer be directly inserted into the cell
    as a subview. Instead they should be interted into the contentView of
	the cell.
  - Remove layout computations based on contentRectForBounds: in AtomicElmentTableViewCell.
    Instead the CGRect returned by self.contentRect.bounds is now used.
	
Version 1.3
  - Updated with API changes  for third beta release of iPhone
    SDK
    - Changed designated initializer in AtomicElementTableViewCell.m to
      initWithFrame:reuseIdentifier:
    - Changed cell creation mechanism in ElementsTableViewController.m
      (see tableView:cellForRowAtIndexPath:)
    - Removed tabBar from Single Element View using new
      hidesBottomBarWhenPushed API (see init in
      AtomicElementViewController.m)
  - Added flipped indicator to navigation bar in Single Element View
    mode.
    - Shows a more indicator when the front of the element is shown,
      shows a representation of the front of the element when the back
      is shown
  - Renamed various element background images to indicate pixel size

Version 1.2
  - Updated with API changes for second beta release of iPhone SDK
    - replaced toolbar references with tabBar references throughout.
    - Single Element View mode should now hide the toolbar
      automatically when it is displayed.
  - New implementation of the view reflection in the Single Element
    View mode.
    - Now creates the reflected image programmatically. This eliminates
      the cheat that included a pre-rendered vertically flipped button
      image.
    - Added a method to AtomicElementView class to return an image that
      contains the reflected image for the view, including the gradient.
    - This version is generic. It will work on any color background,
      and requires no special images for the reflection.
    - Should be reusable in most cases.
    - See AtomicElementView.m for
      reflectedImageRepresentationOfHeight:, the method that creates
      the reflection image. See AtomicElementViewController.m for the
      creation and management of the UIImageView that displays the
      reflected image.
  - Elements by Name table now displays alphabetical side index
    - Side index is now displayed rather than disclosure icon
    - Added new method to the ElementsDataSource protocol to return if
      the disclosure icon should be displayed for a sorted mode
    - See sectionIndexTitlesForTableView:and
      tableView:sectionForSectionIndexTitle:atIndex: in
      ElementsByNameDataSource.m

Version 1.1
  - Initial release.

================================================================================
Copyright (C) 2008-2010 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.



